---
cssclasses:
  - center-titles
tags: 
aliases: 
relevance: 
relevance 2: 
disambiguation: 
banner: 
media:
---
1. Bickham, D.S., 2021. Current research and viewpoints on internet addiction in adolescents. Curr. Pediatr. Rep. 9 (1), 1–10. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40124-020-00236-3.

2. Satici, S. A., GocetTekin, E., Deniz, M. E., & Satici, B. (2023). Doomscrolling scale: Its association with personality traits, psychological distress, social media use, and wellbeing. Applied Research in Quality of Life, 18 (2), 833–847. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11482-022-10110-7 

3. Shabahang, R., Aruguete, M. S., Kim, S., Hosseinkhanzadeh, A. A., & Kakabaraee, K. (2022). “Give your thumb a break” from surfing tragic posts: Potential corrosive consequences of social media users’ doomscrolling. Media Psychology, 26(4), 460–479. https://doi.org/10.1080/15213269.2022.2157287

4. ~~Moe, H., Ytre-Arne, B., & Nærland, T. U. (2021). Between ritual and information: Threephases of Norwegian news audiences’ sense-making of the election of Donald Trump. Journalism, 22 (11), 2764–2780. https://doi.org/10.1177/1464884919883103 

5. Merriam Webster (2023). On “Doomscrolling” and “Doomsurfing”. Available from, https://www.merriam-webster.com/words-at-play/doomsurfing-doomscrolling-wordswere-watching [Last accessed: September, 2023].

6. G.J.G. Asmundson, S. Taylor, C.V. Bovell, K. Collimore, Strategies for managing symptoms of anxiety, Expert Rev. Neurother. 6 (2) (2006) 213–222, https://doi.org/10.1586/14737175.6.2.213. 

7. M.Z. Malak, A.H. Shuhaiber, R.M. Al-amer, M.H. Abuadas, R.J. Aburoomi, Correlation between psychological factors, academic performance and social media addiction: model-based testing, Behav. Inf. Technol. 41 (8) (2022) 1583–1595, https://doi.org/10.1080/0144929X.2021.1891460.


8. W.A. Tamayo Pérez, García Mendoza, N.K. Francelia Quijano Leon, ´ A. Corrales P´erez, J.A. Moo Estrella, Redes sociales en internet, patrones de Sueno ˜ y depresion, ´ Ensenanza ˜ Invest. Psicol. 17 (2) (2012) 427–436. https://www.redalyc.org/articulo.oa?id=29224159005.

9. Garcia-Navarro, L. (2020). Your “doomscrolling” breeds anxiety. Here’s how to stop the cycle. _National Public Radio_.

10. Andersen, K., Djerf-Pierre, M., & Shehata, A. (2024). The Scary World Syndrome: News Orientations, Negativity Bias, and the Cultivation of Anxiety. _Mass Communication and Society_, _27_(3), 502–524. https://doi.org/10.1080/15205436.2023.2297829

11. Abdalla, S. M., Cohen, G. H., Tamrakar, S., Koya, S. F., & Galea, S. (2021). Media Exposure and the Risk of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Following a Mass traumatic Event: An In-silico Experiment. _Frontiers in Psychiatry_, _12_. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyt.2021.674263

12. Pfefferbaum B, Nitiéma P, Newman E, Patel A. The Benefit of Interventions to Reduce Posttraumatic Stress in Youth Exposed to Mass Trauma: A Review and Meta-Analysis. Prehosp Disaster Med. 2019 Oct; 34 (5): 540-551. doi: 10.1017/S1049023X19004771. Epub 2019 Aug 28. PMID: 31455447.

13. Pfefferbaum, B., Nitiéma, P., & Newman, E. (2020). The association of mass trauma media contact with depression and anxiety: A meta-analytic review. _Journal of Affective Disorders Reports_, _3_, 100063. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jadr.2020.100063

14. Cannito L., Annunzi E., ViganòC., Dell'Osso B., Vismara M., Sacco P.L. et al., The role of stress and cognitive absorption in predicting social network addiction. Brain Sciences, 2022. 12(5): 10.

15. B. Gavurova, V. Ivankova, M. Rigelsky, T. Mudarri, Internet addiction in socio-demographic, academic, and psychological profile of college students during the COVID-19 pandemic in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Frontiers in Public Health, 10 (2022), p. 17

16. Li, Y. Y., Sun, Y., Meng, S. Q., Bao, Y. P., Cheng, J. L., Chang, X. W., ... & Shi, J. (2021). Internet addiction increases in the general population during COVID‐19: Evidence from China. _The American journal on addictions_, _30_(4), 389-397.

17. Shen, X., Wang, C., Chen, C., Wang, Y., Wang, Z., Zheng, Y., & Liu, H. (2023). Stress and internet addiction: Mediated by anxiety and moderated by self-control. _Psychology Research and Behavior Management_, 1975-1986.

18. Al-Barashdi, H., Bouazza, A., & Jabur, N. (2015). Smartphone addiction among university undergraduates: a literature review. _Journal of Scientific Research and Reports_, _4_(3), 210-225

19. Boumosleh, J., & Jaalouk, D. Depression, anxiety, and smartphone addiction in university students–A cross-sectional study. 2017. _PLoS One. Aug_, _4_(12), 8.

20. Choi, S. W., Kim, D. J., Choi, J. S., Ahn, H., Choi, E. J., Song, W. Y., ... & Youn, H. (2015). Comparison of risk and protective factors associated with smartphone addiction and Internet addiction. _Journal of behavioral addictions_, _4_(4), 308-314.

21. Gökçearslan, Ş., Mumcu, F. K., Haşlaman, T., & Çevik, Y. D. (2016). Modelling smartphone addiction: The role of smartphone usage, self-regulation, general self-efficacy and cyberloafing in university students. _Computers in Human Behavior_, _63_, 639-649.

22. Lin, Y. H., Chang, L. R., Lee, Y. H., Tseng, H. W., Kuo, T. B., & Chen, S. H. (2014). Development and validation of the Smartphone Addiction Inventory (SPAI). _PloS one_, _9_(6), e98312.

23. Bong, M., & Skaalvik, E. M. (2003). Academic self-concept and self-efficacy: How different are they really?. _Educational psychology review_, _15_, 1-40.

24. Chemers, M. M., Hu, L.-t., & Garcia, B. F. (2001). Academic self-efficacy and first year college student performance and adjustment. _Journal of Educational Psychology, 93_(1), 55–64. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-0663.93.1.55

25. Kandemir, M. (2014). The predictors of academic procrastination: Responsibility, attributional styles regarding success/failure, and beliefs in academic self-efficacy. _Egitim ve Bilim_, _39_(171).

26. Briones, M. R., Prudente, M., & Errabo, D. D. (2023). Characteristics of Filipino Online Learners: A Survey of Science Education Students’ Engagement, Self-Regulation, and Self-Efficacy. _Education Sciences_, _13_(11), 1131.

27. Sun, J. C. Y., & Rueda, R. (2012). Situational interest, computer self‐efficacy and self‐regulation: Their impact on student engagement in distance education. _British journal of educational technology_, _43_(2), 191-204.

28. Gokçearslan, S. a., Mumcu, FK k., Laman, TH, & Çevik, YD (2016). Modeling smartphone addiction: The role of smartphone usage, self-regulation, general self-efficacy and cyberloafing in university students. _Computers in Human Behavior_, _63_, 639-649.

29. Choi, E. Y. (2019). A Study on influential relations between depression and smartphone addiction among freshman college students: with a focus on the mediating effects of self-efficacy and self-esteem. _The Journal of the Convergence on Culture Technology_, _5_(1), 287-295.