---
lastSync: Mon Jan 20 2025 23:37:59 GMT+0800 (台北標準時間)
---
Musical Learning as Design From a multimodal perspective, resourcefulness is the ability to recognize and capitalize on the affordances of different modes. It implies recognizing the potential or “==perceived action possibilities==” posed by the environment or objects in the environment and then acting in accordance with this potential to “==transform affordances into action==” (Gee, n.d., p. 9). These elements of learning are key ingredients of “learning as design” as proposed in the related fields of <u>multimodality and the multiliteracies pedagogy (Kress, 2000b; New London Group, 2000).</u> When applied to musical ability, a conception of learning as design is useful because the word implies “both creating and working in its <u>etymology</u>” (Kress, 2000b, p. 143). Children’s design capacity is understood as their ability to choose and shape material effectively for expressive, performative, or representational purposes (Stein, 2008). Musical designing, then, implies drawing on and organizing movement, verbal, and sonic materials into sound designs. It suggests that musical learning may comprise the capacity to be increasingly effective in transforming affordances of different modes into music-making. When design in Kress’s sense is applied to music education, it proposes a conception of <u>musicality that is more than learning a set of skills or musical knowledges through acquisition.</u> Music-making as designing characterizes performers and creators as resourceful. This is because<u> designing in the multimodality framework “rests on agency</u>; it takes agency for granted, still as work, no longer as acquisition, but now definitely as ‘shaping work’” (Kress, 2000a, p. 141). Designing with sound rather than learning a musical orthodoxy or literacy relates to music-making as an active process of shaping and transforming musical materials for specific purposes. Applying the concept of learning as design to children’s musicking <u>enables an understanding of the action and creativity inherent in agency.</u> The sense of personal agency exemplified in children’s control of resources and design capacity in their musical play can be capitalized on in music education.