New, never heard/noticed
1. **interactive e-map**: it says that e-map can show writing trends across institutions, I mean, how? hahaha
2. **code-meshing**, recontextualization (this one I have read some articles using multimodal composition to investigate recontextualization, remediation, and resemiotization)
3. **hypertextuality**: I understand what hypertext is and frequently use it to learn more, but I'm curious about this word "the property of hypertext", and how this researcher (Heewon Lee) combines it with multimodality.
4. **intertextual education**: I know intertextuality, but I'm curious about how to put it in education practically.
5. **metadisciplinary**: I know transdisciplinary, interdisciplinary, and cross-displinary, but I'm confused about what "metadisciplinary" exactly is and how to achieve it, it's kind of hard to imagine since "meta-" often symbolizes the concept beyond the way we used to do.
---
Learned before (from videos, glossaries, or RSS), but still interesting
1. **linguistic landscapes**: this one is important to message delivery by image and text in social contexts
2. **writing self-efficacy (WSE)**: I know self-efficacy in the engagement of social action, but it's sort of new to me, especially in writing.
---
Intersting and appealing articles
1. **Fostering rhetorical agency in L2 writers through multimodal writing**
	- That may be another insightful way to examine how students deploy rhetoric devices to multimodal writing
2. **Revolutionizing writing skills: Unveiling the influence of robot-assisted multimodal composition on L2 learners' audience awareness**
	- Robotics with multimodality? That is indeed revolutionizing. 
3. **“Avoid fancy words?” “Yeah, like don’t make your readers 不明觉厉”: A case of academic English teachers’ multilingual collaboration in EMI**
	- That's quite a controversial topic since I just read an article from Science Direct advocating that students should also care about diverse word choices and the clarity of content.