國立臺灣科技大學應用外語系
碩士論文
Department of Applied Foreign Languages
National Taiwan University Science And Technology
Master Thesis

在人工智慧增強的批判識能寫作課程中評估人工智慧回饋
Evaluating Artificial Intelligence Feedback in an AI-Enhanced Critical Literacy Writing Class


研究生：張志瑋
指導教授：駱藝瑄　博士
中華民國一百一十五年七月 

 
ABSTRACT
Given the pervasiveness of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the ensuing pedagogical shift of critical literacy education, it is substantial to explore how students can cultivate AI literacy in the critical literacy classroom. Existing literature accentuates AI feedback for literacy development and the enablement for students to critically evaluate both capabilities and limitations of AI. However, empirical studies combining AI and critical literacy for real-world actions remain scarce. Thus, this study investigates how students accept, modify, or reject AI  feedback and evaluate its contextual relevance and usefulness to examine their understanding concerning capabilities and limitations of AI. This study focuses on ten students forming two groups. In the course, students write the social action project following critical literacy framework by Lewison et al. (2002) and structured prompt engineering to collaborate with AI on their essays. This study collects students’ final reflections and semi-structured post-interviews to examine how they process AI feedback and the perceptions of capabilities and limitations. This study also employs thematic analysis through the lens of AI literacy framework by Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to analyze both writing projects and interview transcripts to understand how students evaluate prompt effectiveness and AI feedback. By observing the decisions on AI feedback, this study aims to examine students’ thoughts in the process of engaging, creating with, managing, and designing AI for further implications of AI in future critical literacy classrooms.

Keywords: Artificial Intelligence (AI), AI literacy, EFL writing, critical literacy, feedback, prompt engineering
 
 
 
中文摘要
鑒於人工智慧（AI）的普及，以及隨之而來的批判識能教學轉變，探討學生如何在批判識能課堂中培養人工智慧識能十分重要。現有文獻強調AI回饋能夠強化識能發展，並將批判AI與演算法權力關係視為目標。然而，將AI與批判識能結合以進行真實世界行動的研究尚有缺口。因此，本研究調查學生如何採納、修改或拒絕人工智慧回饋，並評估其情境關聯性與有用性，以檢驗他們對AI能力與侷限的理解。本研究聚焦在兩個小組的十名學生。在課程中，學生遵循給定的批判識能框架撰寫社會行動專案，並使用結構化的提示工程來提問，以進行AI協同寫作。本研究收集多份期末反思與半結構化事後訪談，並運用經濟合作暨發展組織（2025）的人工智慧識能框架和主題分析以評估反思的作答與訪談對話內容，以了解學生對提示詞的有效性與AI回饋的看法。透過觀察對AI回饋的決策，本研究旨在檢視學生在與AI共學、共創、管理和設計過程中的思辨，為未來批判識能課堂中的AI應用提供進一步啟示。

關鍵字：人工智慧（AI），人工智慧識能，英語作為外語寫作，批判識能，回饋，提示工程
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ABSTRACT	ii
中文摘要	1
Introduction	1
Background of the Study	1
Statement of the Problem	3
Research Questions	6
LITERATURE REVIEW	7
Writing with Literacy and Artificial Intelligence	7
The Pros and Perils of AI in Education	8
Prompting and Adopting Feedback	10
Highlighting the Need for AI Literacy	13
Bridging AI Literacy into Critical Literacy Writing	17
Critical AI Literacy Versus AI Literacy in Critical Literacy	20
METHODOLOGY	26
The Context of the Study	26
The Phases of the Course	26
The Structure of the Critical Literacy Writing Project	27
The Structure of the Prompt Engineering	28
Participants	31
Instruments	32
Trustworthiness	34
Expected Outcomes	35
REFERENCES	37
APPENDIX	49

Introduction
	Background of the Study 
		Every new technology we’ve invented, from language, to books, to computers, has defined, redefined, deepened, and expanded what it means to be human (Hoffman & Beato, 2025). As the technology advances, researchers widely investigate the effectiveness and usefulness of artificial intelligence (AI) in the realm of teaching and learning, especially academic writing in the English as a Foreign Language (EFL) classroom. Nowadays, educators have explored several dimensions of the pedagogical impact brought by AI, including but not limited to: students’ perception of writing with AI (Alzubi et al., 2025; Fathi & Rahimi, 2026), writing performance leveraged by AI (Liu et al., 2024; Luo et al., 2025; Song & Song, 2023; Wei et al., 2023), engagement (Hu et al., 2025; Yan & Zhang, 2024), as well as the impact of immediate, adaptive, and personalized writing feedback provided by AI (Asadi et al., 2025; Bai & Wei, 2024; Guo et al., 2024; Han & Li, 2024; Li et al., 2024; Nguyen & Barrot, 2024; Wang, 2024). 
		According to Huang et al. (2023), in language learning contexts, AI typically exhibits three features. First, they excel in generating and expanding ideas, acting as a repository of extensive language knowledge, which correspond to the ability to brainstorm with students. Second, AI is capable of rendering adaptive feedback to students’ inquiries, providing additional insights for their reference in extracurricular settings. Thirdly, as AI delivers the utterances via natural language processing (NLP) directly with the users under ethical circumstances, they are equipped with fundamental social function that is essential to creating an interactive plane for students, which shed light on the silhouette of Freire’s (1970) dialogic pedagogy emphasizing the co-construction of meaning and egalitarian conversation where interweaves multiple perspectives proactively. Overall, its capability to retrieve information online based on the datasets to provide personalized, immediate, and adaptive feedback as well as linguistic guidance on grammar, structure, and word choices, conduces to the augmentation of students’ learning efficiency. However, if it is not deployed properly or under educator’s instructions, several concerns will possibly emerge to hamper the effectiveness to students’ learning process, such as hallucination (Kalai et al., 2025; Salvagno et al., 2023; Sun et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2025), misinformation (Monteith et al., 2024), sycophancy (Naddaf, 2025; Sharma et al., 2023), lexical overrepresentation (Juzek & Ward, 2025), bias (Farlow et al., 2024), misalignment (Ji et al., 2023), overreliance, being sequacious to its responses whether factual or illusive, and eventually incurring the diminishment of cognition (Kosmyna et al., 2025; Lee et al., 2025). In other words, these drawbacks shed light on the pedagogical implications and address the need of literacy education in the 21st century with the emergence of iterative technologies like AI.
		Despite being the double-edged sword for language education, still, if being instructed and scaffolded well in terms of structured prompts and the ability to identify the feedback, AI can significantly booster students’ competences (Lin & Hwang, 2025). Educators have evaluated the benefits brought by AI in terms of students’ cognitive development such as critical thinking (Chen et al., 2024), metacognition, reading and writing performance, creativity, and problem-solving skills. On the other hand, AI is also increasingly proposed to enhance students’ literacies (Kalantzis & Cope, 2025), such as digital literacy (Darvin, 2025b; Zhang & Zhang, 2024), media literacy (Stewart & Rodgers, 2025), information literacy (Tiernan et al., 2023), feedback literacy (Rad et al., 2024; Zhan & Yan, 2025), and, last but not least, AI literacy (Kong et al., 2025; Ng et al., 2024). 
		
	Statement of the Problem
		AI literacy, as defined by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, represents the enablement for students to engage, create with, manage, and design AI, while critically evaluating its benefits, risks, and ethical implications (OECD, 2025). Therefore, students can make safe and informed decisions. Specifically, OECD’s AI literacy framework comprises 4 domains representing different ways in which students interact with AI, including: engaging with AI, creating with AI, managing AI, and designing AI. These four domains provide a strong foundation for the context in this study, elucidating how students will learn from AI, learn with AI, and even learn beyond AI.
		Though educators and practitioners have stated the plentiful benefits AI can conduce to competences and literacies, it is still incomprehensive, particularly critical literacy that focuses on contributing to the  impact of real-world sociopolitical issues when collaborating with AI.
		Stemming from Paulo Freire’s critical pedagogy, critical literacy aims to empower students to deconstruct the binary relationships of oppressed and oppressor to name, rename, renarrate, and understand students’ life worlds via “reading the word” and then “reading the world” (Luke, 2012). Following the vein of “renarrate”, writing here can be understood as a means of realizing both the understanding from reading and the further strategies to transform real-world issues for social justice. Luke (2013) further expands the definition of “critical literacy” with “the use of the technologies” of print and other media of communication to analyze, critique, and transform the norms, rule systems, and practices governing the social fields of everyday life”. Luke’s statements foreground the applicability of AI in modern critical literacy education, and until 2026, critical literacy is often mentioned theoretically in AI education (AIEd) contexts (Kurniati et al., 2025; Thongsan & Anderson, 2025). Nonetheless, few studies empirically investigate the real-world practices with AI in terms of critical literacy. 
		In the work of Kurniati et al. (2025),  critical literacy is viewed as a culturally embedded orientation, which is related to empathy and Internet epistemic beliefs and can promote reflective and ethical practices in the process of writing with AI, thereby eliciting the formation of empathic-sensitive AI literacy that encompasses cognitive-affective development in sociocultural contexts. Moreover, the finding reveals that students frequently sought confirmations on the information generated or retrieved from AI to prevent themselves from uncritical stances in writing incurred by AI hallucination. However, this conceptualization confines the scope of critical engagement to informational verification and personal psychological comfort. This practice, despite  supporting students’ cognitive and mental development, obscures the affectively unpleasant yet critically incisive view on AI outputs. The criticality defined by Kurniati et al. (2025) stems from the beliefs on digital entities through fact-checking, triangulation, and reflective reading, whereas it is insufficient to ensure that students were not affected by potential sycophantic responses from AI and  suffice the essence of Freirean critical literacy aiming at interrogating the sociopolitical nature of reality through multiple perspectives and, to extend the conversation, the junction with AI as a supportive entity but is also subjected to be critiqued. In sum, the definition of critical literacy by Kurniati et al. (2025), beneficial to students notwithstanding, is somewhat cognitive and heavily dependent on affective dimension, which is less likely to be Freirean critical literacy. 
		On the other hand, the work of Thongsan and Anderson (2025)  utilizes ChatGPT, a conversational model developed by OpenAI, to scaffold students’ higher-order thinking in critical reading. To be specific, students collaboratively read with AI to evaluate the argumentations and bias in the texts and eventually challenge AI’s interpretations, alternative perspectives, and the objectivity within AI responses. Furthermore, this empirical study implies that such a conceptual foundation foregrounds the applicability of AI for fostering critical literacy and responsible use of technology in EFL education, establishing a robust argument for this study. Nonetheless, the conceptualization of critical literacy by Thongsan and Anderson (2025) remains confined to higher-order cognitive skills and the critical evaluation of AI's outputs, which is adjacent to either critical thinking focusing on factual information or AI literacy that accentuates the ethical inspection of AI outputs rather than critical literacy. 
		Concerning the mechanisms of AI, it is reasonable to acknowledge the objective nature of AI due to the relentless training, learning, and iterating. Meanwhile, it is imperative to cultivate students’ abilities on identifying main ideas, evaluating the arguments both from the author of the source text and AI, as well as recognizing the bias. However, in similar vein, such cognitive abilities could barely be seen as critical literacy that views a certain text in multiple points of view. In other words, in spite of the mimesis of perspectives from certain personas or figures, these perspectival claims are basically a product from its nature of being a stochastic parrot, that is to say those claims are built upon precise selection from a vast range of datasets and online information without real understanding (Bender et al., 2021 ). Hence, the seemingly subjective perspectives from AI are simulated from objective information, and students, in this sense, struggle to identify the reality intertwined by multiple perspectives from real-life situations. As a result, a real-world experience and understanding in an authentic context is necessitated to invite AI to join the conversation in terms of writing for an actual practice.
Purpose of the Study
		To address this gap, this study aims to explore how students would adopt or reject the feedback from AI and how they will further critically evaluate the extent of its contextual understanding as well as usefulness, thereby empowering students to converse, co-create, and critique AI with the academic writing project for social actions. 
Research Questions
		In this study, the research questions are listed as follows:
1.	In what ways do students perceive and adopt the feedback generated by AI? 
2.	What are the perceptions of students concerning the prompt design, contextual relevance of AI, and its usefulness in critical literacy writing?

 
LITERATURE REVIEW
The Pros and Perils of AI in Education
		Educators have evaluated the benefits brought by AI in terms of students’ cognitive development such as critical thinking (Chen et al., 2024; Shen & Chen, 2025; Yin & Dou, 2025), reading and writing performance, creativity, and problem-solving skills. On the other hand, AI is also increasingly proposed to enhance students’ literacies (Kalantzis & Cope, 2025), such as digital literacy (Darvin, 2025b; Zhang & Zhang, 2024), media literacy (Stewart & Rodgers, 2025), information literacy (Tiernan et al., 2023), feedback literacy (Rad et al., 2024; Zhan & Yan, 2025), prompt literacy (Knoth et al., 2024), and, last but not least, AI literacy (Kong et al., 2025; Ng et al., 2024). Within literacy studies, researchers and educators contribute notably to the applications of AI in writing education. Empirically, Song and Song (2023) employed a mixed-methods approach with a between-group comparison to examine fifty EFL students’ writing skills and writing motivation in the context of ChatGPT-assisted writing instruction. The results show that AI can significantly foster EFL students’ writing motivation and writing skills in the aspects of organization, coherence, grammar, and vocabulary. However, by conducting semi-structured interviews, students mentioned the concerns about its contextual accuracy and overreliance issue. Woo et al. (2024) also conducted a mixed-methods study involving 21 EFL students to investigate learning motivation, cognitive load, and satisfaction in terms of writing with ChatGPT after a 105-minute workshop incorporating the instruction of prompt engineering skills as well as a 500-word writing task. The research findings reveal that these EFL students expressed high satisfaction but with moderate learning motivation and high cognitive load, which can be ascribed to limited time for the interaction with AI on writing task and hasty training on prompt engineering skill. Such an implication corresponds to Morrell’s (2003) statement, advising that without sufficient time devoted to writing, students end up with brilliant, but incomplete thoughts and they lose the opportunity to develop great material into great writing. In other words, this study denotes the implication that writers should be sufficiently trained to write prompts so as to empower AI and writers to brainstorm effectively and therefore reduce the time and load. On the other hand, Niloy et al. (2024) deployed a mixed-methods study to evaluate 600 students’ creative writing tasks with ChatGPT via both human and machine review. The results unveiled a significant decrease in creativity, accuracy, originality, and the concerns of overreliance hindering critical thinking and homogenized writing styles, which become a warning for educators to integrate AI with caution and thoughtful scaffolding strategies. Nonetheless, with structured and specific intervention, it can in turn facilitate students’ performance and thinking skills. In the study of Yin and Dou (2025), they utilized a critical-thinking-oriented framework with the collaboration of AI as an intellectual partner to assist in the writing tests for 250 EFL undergraduate students to investigate their writing performance and critical thinking. The results show that AI can effectively guide students to identify purposes, key questions, and multiple perspectives for drafts, and students’ writing performance as well as critical thinking exhibit immense increase in logical dimension, proving the importance of scaffolding and intervention for the integration of AI. Apparently, numerous studies pose the pros and cons of AI in educational settings, while its mechanism can cause several problems that need users like educators and students to identify. 
		In the work of Hoffman and Beato (2025), they give a sharp description that LLMs  (AI) never know a fact or understand a concept in the way that we do. Instead, every time you prompt an LLM with a question, or ask it to take some action, you are simply asking it to make a prediction about what tokens are most likely to follow the tokens that comprise your prompt in a contextually relevant way. This claim prompts the readers to realize it is a more computationally capable machine that can translate and process machine language in the form of natural language as the output in seconds, and we cannot affirm whether it has the capability to think in an exact human way. However, something is similar to human traits or a behavioral fallacy an organic being can make. In the study of Kalai et al. (2025), they pose the phenomenon called “hallucination”, meaning LLMs, viz., AI, may produce overconfident, plausible falsehoods, which diminish their utility and trustworthiness. To make an analogy, when encountering unanswerable question or unachievable request, instead of expressing the fact it doesn’t know, it would bluff its way out in attempt to obtain reward. Similar to the aforementioned hallucination, an issue called “sycophancy” that AI may sometimes trigger. In technical sense, as Sharma et al. (2023) reported, human feedback is one of the main sources to train AI assistants’ preference model in order to better predict users’ preferred responses. To immediately get reward by responding in favorable way, AI may prioritize matching user beliefs over truthful ones since most of reward for AI models comes from behaving agreeably and politely, even when confirming misconceptions. Several potential problems are stated in the work of Walter (2024), such as AI hallucination (fabricate things seemingly factual), AI alignment (answer beyond the requests, and it is sometimes unnoticed), AI runaway (AI behaves in a way the users never asked for), AI discrimination (AI can produce biased information against miscounted voices due to using skewed data to train models), and AI Lock-In problem (AI can get stuck and therefore lose the focus of other aspects in a certain context). These phenomena and the aforementioned studies delineate the importance for students in terms of critically evaluating the responses and feedback from AI, thereby augmenting the effectiveness of language learning, particularly producing written texts. 
		Despite being the double-edged sword for language education, still, if being instructed and scaffolded well in terms of structured prompts and the ability to identify the feedback, AI can significantly booster students’ competences (Lin & Hwang, 2025). therefore, currently students should be prepared for examining the factualness and reliability. In these studies, it can be induced by two major themes to generally yet incompletely synthesize the current status of AI in support with EFL writing education. First, both students and AI should be equipped with one or several certain kinds of scaffolded strategies to formulate the knowledge and therefore foster the competence development. Second, AI is capable of generating corrective, formative, or evaluative feedback through the lens of multiperspectivity from statistical models’ datasets, educator’s interventional requests, or students’ prompting skills, and students should learn to engage, create, manage, and design AI to attain the learning goals.
Writing with Literacy and Artificial Intelligence
		Language is the medium which all of us know intimately, and the medium of information is language in its written form: literacy (Kress, 2005). Literacy, if following its fundamental but incomplete definition, is the ability to read and write (Kendeou et al., 2023), whereas it lacks further expansive interpretation. In conceptual or theoretical sense, reading the word is the mean of reifying the scope of reading the world to students, and, in the meantime, writing is represented as the medium for the creation of new knowledge and the conduit for virtual telepresence that defies time and space. Practically, literacy refers to the ability to express ourselves and communicate using written language (Long & Magerko, 2020). Being as the vehicle of literacy, text is pervasive in every day objects, and texts can be read, designed, as well as produced with multiple perspectives interweaved, together with the language we used, thereby recognizing writing a pivotal facet in the growth of EFL students’ one of the productive skills (Haiyan & Rilong, 2016; Lewison et al., 2002; Vasquez et al., 2019). On top of this fascinating attribute, the information and communication technologies (ICTs) advance accompanied by the transformation of medium that assist in the way of expressing and narrating with literacy. When literacy is life, generative and regenerative to contribute commentary and contestation (Morrell, 2003), it seems that the term “generative” has brought us to reconsider what it means and is composed of in the time of artificial intelligence (AI).
		AI, the intricate and therefore unexplainable digital being, is trained to predict or generate new, probabilistically produced data for (i.e., content) based on the users’ written prompts (i.e., needs) to further actualize the desired possibilities (Banh & Strobel, 2023; Burriss & Leander, 2024). Moreover, as AI is ubiquitously applied in our daily lives, and, to some extent, automatic writing evaluation (AWE) tools like Quillbot and Grammarly, as well as intelligent tutoring systems (ITS) like Duolingo have already involved in language education prior to the advent of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and Gemini. In view of this, as a disruptive technology, AI has the power to radically transform language and literacy practices in unprecedented ways (Darvin, 2025a).
Prompting and Positioning Feedback
		In addition to scaffolding and direct instructions, feedback is also instrumental in language learning process, as it is the processes where the student makes sense of performance-relevant information to promote their learning (Henderson et al., 2019). As the knowledge in the classroom varies, currently, the sources of feedback can be teacher, teaching assistant, peers, and AI which emulate human intelligence processes and simulate human conversation (Asadi et al., 2025). 
		Different from human feedback requiring time and strenuous efforts to scrutinize students’ written works, AI retrieves existing information and leverages its expeditious computation as well as processing to present text resembling human writing in seconds, producing instant, accessible, and personalized feedback without the prerequisites of spatiotemporal factors. Nonetheless, due to its vast but uncontrollable retrieval process, it sometimes fails to align the response with the real-world contexts or requirements if not being monitored and fine-tuned by humans. Hence, it can be generally divided into two procedures in the face of unstable outputs as either incorporating existing support or  is important to incorporate existing support in the classroom or students’ literacy to evaluate the uptake of feedback. In the study of Asadi et al. (2025), they adopted a synthetic approach to incorporating both teachers’ and AI’s guidance, the study found that EFL students performed exceptionally in IELTS Writing Task 2 under the integrative guidance compared to those who were instructed via teachers’ feedback only. In the interviews, the teachers mentioned AI is equipped with individualized and responsive characteristics, promptness, and adaptive capabilities to specific requirements. Nevertheless, some limitations were reported, such as overreliance, difficulty of guaranteeing precision, failure to account for significant contextual implications, consequently leaving a need for determining the suitable applications and constraints of AI writing feedback. As for the comparison of teacher’s and AI’s feedback, Lin and Crosthwaite (2024) respectively evaluated the foci of both teachers’ and AI’s feedback in L2 writing. The findings are reported that teachers are capable of focusing on the structure, grammar, content, and organization, albeit with slight inaccuracy. In the meantime, AI focuses on error explanations and reformulations of the text that can help students to understand the reason why it is suggested revising, whereas it exhibits redundancy and shortsightedness of grammar and word choices. On the other hand, Han and Li (2024) opted a complementary approach that teachers furnished students with the refined feedback they adapted from AI’s output. The findings show that such a combination reduces the workload and therefore enable teachers to provide detailed comments in a large class setting. Moreover, students reflected a rather high engagement and acknowledged its specificity on their writing in terms of addressing global issues, which implies human oversights is necessary to ensure the output is relevant and specific. On the other hand, from the perspective of the interaction between students and AI in the feedback process, Zhan and Yan (2025) investigate the extent of engagement with AI feedback on IELTS writing. They revealed students tend to compare the text, extract key information, or focus on AI-generated feedback selectively to further revise and improve their writing as expected. However, researchers also noted that a majority of students merely chose to have one-off dialogues, direct prompts for revision, and short-term objectives aiming at immediate performance instead of developing writing skill on their own. 
		In response to Zhan and Yan’s (2025) concerns about students’ one-off dialogues and what Walter (2024) has mentioned in terms of potential learning hindrance from AI feedback, Google Workplace (2024) has proposed a prompt guide that encompasses universal needs for workflow and learning efficiency. In its prompt guide, there is a framework called PTCF including persona, task, context, and format, which can be an effective starter to establish the desire output for subsequent interactions. First, persona refers to expert prompting stated by Walter (2024), which enables AI to assume the role of an expert in a certain field of knowledge so as to generate more concrete and less vague responses. Second, task refers to self-consistency prompting that students deliberately break down the reasoning into steps so as to ensure AI can follow this pattern to mitigate the possibility of hallucination. Third, context refers to the tree-of-thought prompting that it can trace back and go forth the ideas, and then simulate the contexts through multiple perspectives and conditions to provide the optimal option, which is helpful for students to understand the context via several possible viewpoints and therefore cultivate the sense of critical literacy. Finally, format can help AI to generate a structured output based on user’s expectations such as bullet points, table, or Markdown. In this way, students can clearly absorb the information in a form they desired and inspect which aspect should be further developed, clarified, or corrected.

Students’ Perceptions of AI Feedback and Usefulness 
		Far from the proliferation of expert systems (the predecessor of AI nowadays) in 1980s,  the era of full human feedback, Kulhavy’s (1977) view of learning and feedback is situated at the intersection between printed materials as the majority of teaching medium and the nascent development of computer-assisted education. In his research, Kulhavy (1977)  concluded that feedback is not necessarily a reinforcer since it works best when the students need correction on content or logical reasoning. This discovery debates the view of Skinnerian behaviorism arbitrarily claiming the absolute benefits of feedback and implies that feedback’s effectiveness depends on student’s actual condition and needs. In the work of Hattie and Timperly (2007)  on declaring the pedagogical impact of feedback, they inherit Kulhavy’s (1977) view of feedback and further claim that feedback should be the information that students can decide to accept, modify, or reject. Furthermore, Hattie and Timperly (2007)  stated that feedback is established on the basis of a learning process that is familiar and relatively understandable. Following this vein, we can refer this premise to a written text including prompts and any form of input sent to AI, and this facet of information also reflects the actual understanding of a student to the context where they have already known and yearn to explore further. 
		For the word “rejection”, despite being mentioned by Hattie and Timperly (2007) as one of the options of feedback, it gains little attention in the academic research until AI. Across decades, feedback is mainly provided from educator and peers who are situated at the same classroom or similar context. Hence, the feedback is perceived to be either helpful or complementary to both correction and confirmation. In addition, following Kulhavy’s (1977) view of feedback usefulness on correction, automatic writing evaluation (AWE) tools like Grammarly and Quillbot on the basis of correcting grammar and word choices are also perceived to be useful. However, these affirmative conditions may not be always established when it comes to AI feedback. Chen et al. (2026) conducted an empirical study investigating the adoption rate of AI feedback in terms of AI-assisted academic writing via the framework called unified theory of acceptance and use of technology (UTAUT). The findings ascertain nearly half of the AI feedback (45.9%) was rejected, mainly due to the mismatch with their expectations and the overly general outputs. However, the study didn’t extend the conversation on the word “expectations” but left a brief explanation that AI, in this premise, cannot help them improve their work or performance since it may not fully understand the subtleties of their writing, and the word “subtleties” implies the perceived usefulness from the students. 
		To sum up, this study argues that students nowadays in the face of AI feedback should be capable of evaluating whether the outputs of AI are exactly what they would like to know and making decisions on the adoption of AI feedback. On the contrary, Skinner’s reinforcement effect of feedback seems to reinforce the learning condition at two extremes. At one extreme, assuming that a student lacks context familiarity and clear expectations, they may succumb to overestimation and overreliance. Furthermore, the student in this condition may lack prompting skills to state the need and situation precisely to enable AI to generate expected results. Consequently, AI-driven decision-making can amplify bias and cause harm without careful oversight, that it can exacerbate the hindrance of learning process and corrupt the results. At the other extreme, if students are equipped with proper strategies for AI interaction, they are likely to receive the feedback as expected and expand their understanding that is not redundant but necessary since they comprehend the sense of extracting anticipated information among the lengthy response via the technique of accepting, modifying, or rejecting. 
		Apart from the empirical study of Chen et al. (2026) examining the rationale of rejecting AI feedback, in the empirical study of Willems et al. (2025), in spite of the context irrelevant to language education, the authors reveal a key finding that complementarily fill the gap of rejection as the option of using AI for learning. The context takes place in a course called Design Thinking & Innovation (DTI) for 500 undergraduates majoring in engineering and architecture, and students’ reflections were marked into three different sets according to the situations about what students did with AI, how they thought about it, when they adopt it, and when they did not. Specifically, the roles of AI among those students’ perceptions are classified into three sets: AI as a tool (enhancement for task efficiency), AI as a teammate (co-design with students), and AI as “neither” (intentional rejection of AI for specific reasons). The findings, especially the last one, showed that it is striking that the “neither” is not an absolute rejection of AI’s value, but a situated decision with context-aware and ethical considerations, thereby revealing deliberate non-use represents a facet of literacy on technological applications. Unlike the phenomenon called AI aversion that the negative attitude is built upon the human-like nature of AI to make people detest AI’s decision (Dang & Liu, 2024; Qin et al., 2025), in this scenario, rejection should be regarded as a rational decision-making implying students are utilizing their cognition and judgment to critically evaluate what they yearn to know and what information or content is contextually helpful for themselves to develop their written text and critical perspective further. According to these elaborations regarding the feedback and usefulness of AI, a key literacy should be introduced and accentuated herein, viz., AI literacy.


Highlighting the Need for AI Literacy
		Given the implications from the aforementioned studies and the call from Ministry of Education (MOE) in response to the educational challenges brought by AI, it is said that empowering students to utilize critical thinking, creativity, problem-solving skills, and the ability to express the need so as to realize the thoughts in real life are essential for literacy-oriented AI education. Thus, consolidating the constitution of AI literacy is necessary. 
		Prior to the emergence of popularized AI-driven technologies, the term “digital literacy” was used to assess basic computer-related concepts and skills when computer applications gained popularity across industries in the 1970s (Ng et al., 2021). Despite its mention to the computer that can be the vehicle of AI, it fails to suffice the specific emphasis on the applications of AI. To invite educators and individuals who accentuate the use of AI to explore its pedagogical potential, this study adopts the term “AI literacy” to conceptualize the learning process on AIEd scenarios. Early on the coinage by Kandlhofer et al. (2016), the year when common LLMs have not released and widely known as AI in common sense, AI literacy was described as the ability to allow people to understand the techniques and concepts behind AI products and services instead of just learning how to use certain technologies or current applications. To introduce more specifically for educators to develop AI literacy in a stepwise way, they define it as: (a) building awareness and playful exploring AI topics; (b) experimenting and familiarizing with the theory behind certain AI topics and working independently on solving a problem; (c) fostering core AI topics and getting familiar with advanced AI topics; (d) applying problem solving methods on a higher abstraction level. These steps establish the foundation of AI literacy, whereas it is yet incomplete to this type of technology that has become the so-called black box with unpredictability induced by the algorithms and retrieval from multiple models and datasets. A closer definition that fits current educational needs comes from the literature from Long & Magerko (2020), it is defined as a set of competencies that enables individuals to critically evaluate AI technologies; communicate and collaborate effectively with AI; and use AI as a tool online, at home, and in the workplace. From the perspective of L2 writers, Warschauer et al. (2023) proposed AI literacy is the ability that L2 writers need “to effectively navigate and integrate AI technologies into their writing tasks”. In terms of addressing the need of AI literacy from a preventive perspective, Wang and Wang (2025) proposed a model of critical AI literacy writing including critical awareness of AI, critical positionality, critical strategies for interacting with AI, and critical evaluation of AI affordances. In addition, the authors intend to foster critical AI literacy in L2 writing by foregrounding the following aspects, including maintaining one’s own voice while preventing their writing from the temptation to adopt AI suggestions which may lead to a similar machine-like linguistic and rhetorical style, and balancing missed versus new learning opportunities, as AI could provide shortcuts to linguistic and ideational generation, potentially leading to learning loss. For the first aspect, the temptation to adopt AI suggestions which incurs homogeneous writing style can be found in the work of Juzek and Ward (2025) with the word “lexical overrepresentation”, which indicates the overuse of abstract and grandiose words to overly glorify in the aspect of stylistic variations. In spite of failing to unveil the major cause of lexical overrepresentation since LLMs’ linguistic behavior is complicated by their complexity and by secrecy and other industry practices. Another noteworthy event is the statistical results reported by Graphite.io, a company in charge of answer engine optimization (AEO) and search engine optimization (SEO), which sampled approximately 65,000 websites in English from January 2020 to January 2025. The result showed that the number of AI-generated articles have surged in 2023 and statistically surpassed the number of human-written articles in 2025 without identifying AI-generated human-edited articles. These findings in turn suggest the importance and even urgency to promote AI literacy.
		To suffice the explanation, efficacies of AI literacy, and the characteristics of an individual equipped with AI literacy, in 2025, the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) proposed a framework covering a vast range of competences for AI literacy, named AILit Framework. In this framework, AI literacy is defined as the ability representing the technical knowledge, durable skills, and future ready attitudes required to thrive in a world influenced by AI. It enables students to engage, create with, manage, and design AI, while critically evaluating its benefits, risks, and ethical implications (OECD, 2025). On top of that, students can make safe and informed decisions through AI literacy. The massive structure of AILit Framework is established on the basis of multiple existing frameworks, including: (a) Digital Competence Framework for Citizens (DigComp) from the European Commission, focusing on the overall competence in the digital world; (b) AI Competencies from UNESCO, which is proposed in 2024 and subsequently inspires AILit Framework; (c) The Digital Promise AI Literacy Framework, providing the foundation of competences for AI literacy; and (d) The AI4K12 Big Ideas in AI, introducing the position of data in the AI training process. Regarding the ways in which students interact with AI, the AILit Framework classifies four domains. The first domain is engaging with AI, which is used to access new information and content. Subsequently, students must evaluate the accuracy and relevance of AI outputs, thereby critically analyze its capabilities and limitations. The second domain is creating with AI, which consists of human-AI collaborative creative problem-solving process involving guiding and refining AI output through prompts and feedback ethically and responsibly to ensure the content is fair and appropriate. The third domain is managing AI, which requires intentionally choosing how AI can support and enhance human work, including assigning structured tasks such as organizing information so as to enable students to focus on the areas requiring judgment, or simulating a role for AI to process the tasks thoughtfully and suitably, thereby ensuring that AI works in an ethical and human-centered way. The last domain is designing AI, which empowers students to understand AI and connect it to social and ethical impacts to build students’ capacity to shape beneficial AI system. These four domains encompass a variety of pedagogical possibilities and guide students through the lens of social, technical, and ethical considerations of AI literacy to navigate both the benefits and risks of AI. As  The challenges of AI in education appears to be a threat at the first glance though, it also opens a gate for educators and students to disrupt and explore the different path of learning. As Knoth et al. (2025) stated in their investigation on prompt engineering and AI literacy, they concluded that the extent of an individual’s AI literacy can directly influence prompt engineering skill and therefore differ the quality of AI outputs. Moreover, they also noted that AI literacy can also elicit the ability of students on how they evaluate and decide to delegate a task to AI, symbolizing a predictive factor of responsible use of AI. 
		While AI literacy is increasingly promoted and mapping its own panorama by incorporating the existing paradigms as well as competences, an editorial paper by Pangrazio (2026) questions the possibility of literacy itself in OECD’s (2025) AI literacy. The author poses the challenge that current frameworks of AI literacy, particularly nominating OECD’s AILit Framework, lean heavily toward the instrumentalist sense, namely using AI literacy only for productivity like a kind of soft governance for participation. Furthermore, the author also critiques the opacity and embeddedness of AI remains its definition fast-changing since it actively shapes public discourse, knowledge seeking, and behaviors that shape its continuously updated—whether in the sense of online trends or model versions—and pervasive nature (Yeung, 2019). In addition to the challenge of AI literacy, the author also poses a question regarding critical literacy, the ability to disrupt and deconstruct the ideology from the written texts or even everyday objects, which may be absent due to the previously mentioned opacity and the lack of detail on how it should be taught via AI. This question per se is critical to note that few empirical studies have applied AI into critical literacy education, or remains it on the research implications that address future studies to prove its effectiveness, or conducts the systematic reviews to deduce the real application of LLMs like ChatGPT or Gemini into critical literacy education through the empirical studies using ITS or AWE. In response to these concerns, rather than desperately teaching students what machine learning and reinforcement learning mean and how they operate just in attempt to dissect its power relations to further critique, educators should acknowledge the instrumental facet of AI literacy since it is the prerequisite of learning with, learning for, and learning about AI. Then, the author missed the emphasis of critical literacy in social and political practices that happened in real world instead of AI platforms only. Hence, by leveraging the so-called defect in instrumentalism mentioned by Pangrazio (2026), students can in turn realize the essence of both AI literacy for their rapid development on writing performance and additional cognition of its double-sidedness on its capabilities and limitations, while steadily fostering their critical literacy. Nonetheless, similar to the inconsistencies in defining AI literacy, several variations of critical literacy have emerged in the AI era, necessitating further clarification.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Critical Literacy
		AI is frequently depicted as a black box that strangles the explainability of algorithms and ideology that propels its processing to produce human-like texts (Ashby, 1956; Bearman & Ajjawi, 2023; Darvin, 2025a). Consequently, many studies have approached critical literacy in the context of using AI through computational, algorithmic, or speculative dimensions. These studies primarily discuss how machines generate texts and how their inherent biases might manipulate human thinking, framing AI primarily as a subject of critique. However, the variations of critical literacy with AI are defined differently and divergently. First, Arseven and Bal’s (2025)  systematic review on critical literacy in AI-assisted writing points out students need to deploy argumentation skills, metacognition, critical thinking, self-regulation, and so on, as a manifestation of  critical literacy. Of course, these skills are helpful to students’ overall learning process, whereas its demarcation on critical literacy is actually critical thinking focusing on the objective logic, facts, and the pursuit of truth. In other words, the criticality lying in critical thinking anchoring to objectivity is beneficial to students’ dialectic practice but cannot be synonymous with the criticality in critical literacy emphasizing intersubjective reality. 
		On the other hand, Veldhuis et al. (2025)  conducts a scoping review adopting Freirean critical literacy to investigate AI as a critiqued object for critical literacy on power dynamics, algorithm bias, and ideology, thereby introducing critical AI literacy. Critical AI literacy inherits the tradition of critical literacy by the framework of Lewison et al. (2002) and attempts to materialize the usage patterns by Revised Bloom Taxonomy. Though it can be the ultimate goal to question the very essence of dominant narratives generated from AI, the prerequisite is experiencing its instrumental strengths in supporting students’ writing and therefore complete a thorough examination in real life practices. In this way, they can concurrently realize the constraints of AI so as to autonomously prompt them think about the improperness of AI in terms of sociopolitical dimension and targeting it as the object to be critiqued.
		In a  similar vein, critical digital literacies describe AI as a black box and focus on the critical evaluation of platform design, big data, unequal distribution of resources, and algorithms on the basis of AI to prompt students to critique or even criticize the ideologies behind the platforms, models, and so on, in a macroscopic level encompassing a sociomaterial perspective (Darvin, 2025b ). Of course, it is essential to decipher the ideological intention lurking beneath the texts generated from AI owing to its ubiquity. However, such macroscopic objective requires praxis or operable teaching and learning guidelines to fill the gap. In addition, compared to the original focus of critical literacy on the real-world praxis, it instead emphasizes the resistance on the ideology and domination in the digital world, viz., platforms and apps of AI even if critical digital literacies also highlight the importance of feedback evaluation to protect students from outsourcing their cognition. For practicality, it is rather a long-term goal to attain considering the competitive iteration of models, the introduction of new engineering or algorithmic approaches, and, especially, the prior knowledge of students apropos of critical literacy and AI. In other words, the educator must assess the extent of students’ prior knowledge in terms of AI and critical literacy. Provided that students rarely know the meaning of critical literacy and how they can use AI properly prior to the curriculum, it is barely realistic to judge the algorithm bias or black box when the conceptualization of critical literacy has not been at least fundamentally grounded. Furthermore, if the educator initially stated AI should be critiqued due to the opacity of ideology and power relations, the course may fail to promote the right and responsible use of AI since their first understanding of critical literacy may be concluded by AI as a malevolent being for their learning process and therefore avert its usage, thereby contradicting the focus eventually. 
		From a perspective advocating AI as a capable agent in the social network and acknowledging the definition of black box on AI, theoretical claims combining critical literacy, AI, and posthumanist theory are proposed and integrated as critical posthumanist literacy (Burriss & Leander, 2024; Leander & Burriss, 2020 ). Critical posthumanist literacy advocates that sociotechnical justice should be promoted through an agentic view of teaching with emergence, unpredictability, and speculation as our reading, writing, and communication are bound up with machines. Notwithstanding a valuable inspection on defining AI as social agent and restating what traits make an individual a human to foster the human-AI co-creation, it flattens the priority of students’ cognitive efforts on literacy development since, in this framework, every object including humans and non-human beings that acts socially are equivalently viewed as agents. This interpretation can arbitrarily underestimate students’ literacy practices and the competences they procured, while the actual contribution of AI to critical literacy may be over-glamorized. Thus, to differ the focus from the aforementioned concepts, this study conceptually calibrates the discussion with critical literacy and AI literacy, as the instruction of AI literacy is embedded in the critical literacy practices involving the use of AI.
		On the other hand, AI literacy empowers students to think about when, where, and how AI should be applied to ensure it serves needs equitably and critically (OECD, 2025), which points out the decision-making process with respect to the occasions to use AI. Although OECD’s AILit Framework also mentions the importance of understanding AI through the lens of machine learning similar to Darvin’s (2025)  critical digital literacies of AI, it emphasizes more pragmatically on the development of the awareness of its capabilities and limitations through the interactions and proposed skills, i.e., engage, create, manage, and design instead of underscoring its opacity. In addition, it also acknowledges the definition of Arseven and Bal’s (2025)  critical AI literacy by directly mentioning critical thinking and metacognition. Nevertheless, the underlying competences are included but not limited to these, and directly hybridize the word “critical” in critical thinking with AI literacy may potentially occupy and extrude the importance of critical literacy. Finally, it also recognizes that AI can contribute to the impact within social and political systems  and that algorithmic output can reinforce existing patterns of unfairness if not critically examined. This statement pinpoints both Freirean critical literacy and the implication of Burriss and Leanders’ (2024)  insights of critical posthumanist literacy, whereas AILit framework further accentuates the assistance in the navigation of a world where students could and should make technological decisions and the inquiry on not only what AI can do, but also what it should do and whom it serves, thereby leveraging AI while maintaining qualities that technology cannot replicate. 
		Therefore, in this study, AI literacy in critical literacy  views AI as a companion of students’ critical literacy practices offering supports from digital interface to the real-world context. In this process, students yield an experience to perceive the strengths of AI in terms of gathering information, yet as the project proceeds deeper and specific, they can become to realize that not all feedback from AI is helpful or relevant to their living world context and therefore start to wonder what it can do and what it cannot do in this real-world context. Eventually, they learn to take over the decision-making from AI to justify and realize their real-world practice should remain ethical and human-centered based on their contextual understanding and judgments on the suitability or practicality of the action plan. Following this definition, this study aims to explore the capabilities and limitations perceived and reported by EFL students in terms of the context relevance and usefulness for the understanding of real-world scenarios in their writing.

Bridging AI Literacy into Critical Literacy Writing
		As mentioned earlier, literacy is to be able to read, write, communicate, and express, while, practically, AI literacy can further extend the domains of literacy for technological applications and productivity. However, it is insufficient to fulfill the essence of literacy practices only through a productive lens since the prevalent usage of technology is to optimize the workflow, reduce the workload, and expedite the readiness of students’ literacy development. Therefore, critical literacy is the crucial but under-stated or under-practiced component to understand the effect of AI-generated text, i.e., AI feedback, on students’ judgments to the real-world impact. Inspired from Freire’s (1970) critical pedagogy, Alm and Watanabe (2023) examined the pedagogical position of AI through Freirean perspective and pointed out that students’ overreliance can be an indicator of banking models of learning, which portrays students as passive recipients and educators as depositors of knowledge, discouraging students’ criticality and therefore hinders students to situate learning in realities. In other words, if posing AI as the main source of information and regarded it as infallible knowledge, students can be impotent to think, read, write, and take actions through the lens of criticality. An experiment conducted by Kosmyna et al. (2025) from MIT used electroencephalography (EEG) to evaluate the thinking during writing process based on the neural signals. The participants are sampled into three groups as writing independently, writing with the assistance of websites or googling, and writing along with AI. At the end of writing, independent writing group can access to AI, while AI-dependent group were asked to write without AI. The EEG results show that AI-dependent group exhibits the lowest writing and thinking performance since AI has fully taken over the load of cognitive burden and the information needed to memorize, thereby disengaging writers’ brain activities.  It must be noted that the disengagement is resulted from the full outsourcing of AI, which is similar to the overreliance mentioned by numerous studies without the inclusion of individuals who partially using AI. In an article written by Shroff (2025) on The Atlantic, a term called “LLeMmings” is coined to describe such individuals reliant on AI that the decisions they make and the questions that consume their mind all filter through AI first, thereby behaving like lemmings which tend to fall into collective unconscious acts without independent thinking. Within this scope, this study advocates that critical literacy empowers students to be capable of evaluating, judging, and even disagreeing the generated feedback from dominant texts so as to firmly establish students’ own critical focus. On the basis of Freire’s emphasis on reading the word is reading the world, according to Janks (2019), students under the paradigm of critical literacy should also both read with text and read against texts, viz., students as readers should understand the positions and engage with writer’s arguments, and then adopt a different perspective and evidence to pose problems to the texts. If contextualizing these principles into human-AI interaction, that is to say students as readers learn with AI as writer generating feedback to students. Subsequently, students read against AI via different perspective or their understanding to the topic they discussed with AI so as to see both capabilities and limitations, as stated in the AILit Framework that AI lacks a true grasp of real-world context, human values and behaviors, and details that may be seemingly negligible but actually noteworthy. Thus, a human must take judgments about specific contexts that AI systems cannot (OECD, 2025). In view of reading AI-written texts for their own writing,  it is also important to instruct students posing appropriate questions or requests to AI so as to manage it, that is to say, fostering prompting engineering. According to Walter (2024), prompt engineering entails the strategic crafting of inputs to elicit expected responses from AI, and its extent of utility reflects how critical are students when engaging with AI. In Section 2.6, this study would clarify why to employ AILit Framework and PTCF Framework to construct the lens of AI literacy to perceive critical literacy writing instead of directly adopting other variations of critical literacy about technology.
 
METHODOLOGY
The Context of the Study
		The setting is Critical Literacy: Theme-based English Reading and Writing (I), a compulsory 16-week course for 33 first-year Applied Foreign Languages EFL students at  a university of science and technology in northern Taiwan. 
The Phases of the Course
		To instruct the principles and phases of critical literacy practices, this course centers on four dimensions of critical literacy proposed by Lewison, Flint, and van Sluys (2002), which include: (a) disrupting the commonplace, (b) interrogating multiple perspectives, (c) focusing on sociopolitical issues, (d) taking social actions and promoting social justice. To disrupt the commonplace, students should learn to question everyday objects since those can be seen as texts and texts are never neutral (Comber et al., 2018; Janks, 2014). Therefore, they need to scrupulously examine the preconceived or barely noticed but worth challenging issues. Subsequently, students have to conduct deep research and extensive reading to gather different perspectives to perform an interrogation on texts with inquiries about the unsaid voices and make them visible. In these processes, AI can assist students in brainstorming the topic, segmenting a certain topic or issue into distinctive points of view or several dimensions across society, culture, politics, and so on. Thirdly, students are encouraged and empowered to challenge the nexus between language and power and go beyond the personal preconceptions to to reach the facet of society and politics. After undergoing and understanding the above-mentioned phases, students are able to use literacy in attempt to comprehend and change the situation in their contexts. Throughout the whole process, students could learn to use AI and learn with, from, about, or even against AI by engaging with it and then critically evaluating it. 
The Structure of the Critical Literacy Writing Project
		This study specifies the focus the writing phase which students are asked to submit five versions of drafts for their social action project. Specifically, the writing phase started by Week 6 after reading previous studies. Students needed to conduct 1200-word handwriting right after in-class group discussion about deciding the social action without the assistance of AI, the specific details and requirements of the writing tasks can be seen in Appendix A. After class, students were assigned to rewrite their ideas with AI to have a rough draft for the organization, whereas students had not been instructed prompt engineering at this phase. In Week 7, students learned how to prompt effectively for their further development of writing. In Week 8, students were guided through real-person feedback including the instructor, teaching assistants, and peers from other groups and refined the essay. In Week 9, students need to finalize and combine all elements in detail.
		Since the writing tasks and social action are done by groups, the previous four drafts of essay are written independently in the form of consisting introduction, 3 body paragraphs with respectively different perspectives, and conclusion with eight hundred to one thousand words in total. After completing individual essays, each group needs to collaboratively write a group introduction and conclusion to converge their individual essays. The overall structure is shown in Fig. 1. In addition, students are encouraged to read 5 articles, particularly official reports, organizational texts, or research articles to establish persuasiveness by citations and references based on APA 7 format.



Fig 1. Collaborative writing project template	
 
The Structure of the Prompt Engineering
		This study follows Google Workplace’s Prompt Guide 101, which is widely called as PTCF Framework including persona, task, context, and format. On the basis of PTCF, this study incorporates two additional components to ensure that students can better understand and interpret AI feedback. The first component is called “Example”, which is used as an instantiation to mandate the syntax of AI’s response so as to identify the arguments clearly. The second component is called “Tone”, which is utilized to specify the stylistics of AI output. In addition, the prompt is written in a Markdown format so that both students and AI can efficiently understand the formatting without processing complicated or ambiguous texts that may deviate the initial intention. The instantiation of prompt engineering design is shown in Fig. 2.












Fig 2. The template of prompt engineering
 
 
Participants
		In the course of critical literacy, this study recruits 33 first-year Applied Foreign Languages EFL students at  a university of science and technology in northern Taiwan. Before entering the university, the entrance channels and language proficiency of the students are diverse, and some of them are non-English major before. Furthermore, they have basic experience of utilizing AI for writing, including brainstorming, outlining, grammar, spelling, paraphrasing or rephrasing, word choices, feedback, translation, and cohesion as well as coherence. Meanwhile, they have no prior understanding of critical literacy before taking this course. To view the scope of the overall course, it can be divided into four actions for students to practice, including reading research materials to better understand the definition and effects of critical literacy, academic writing to strategize the subsequent real-world social action, implement social action and document the process, and present a short clip multimodally. 
		Apart from the three-hour session of the course weekly, another one-hour voluntary group consulting session leaves open to those who would like to be in search of further suggestions or clarifications about the development of their group project.  Throughout the 16-week courses, two groups show a strong engagement from social action to AI-assisted writing advice. Considering such a facet of active participation, this study adopts a purposive sampling to select these two groups in a total of ten freshmen. The topic of the first group is called “Whispers of Betrayal: Revealing Different Perspectives”. Five students in the group investigates the Erasmus Bubble, i.e., the challenges of international students about sociocultural integration in the local communities, and strives to disrupt the rationale of sociocultural barriers between Taiwanese local students and international students by hosting an intercultural open meeting and interviewing the attendants’ perceptions. Overall, this group is strongly autonomous to their social action plans and decision-making on their own with strict criteria on AI feedback. The second sampled group, comprising five students addressing "Perspectives on Women’s Sanitary Pads and Subsidies", determined to unveil the latent social phenomenon of period poverty in the campus through gathering people’s opinions from equality to policy-making. Although they showed relatively lower understanding of the use of AI and critical literacy, they strive to seek any possible assistance from AI, course instructor, and teaching assistants, gather information, and collaboratively evaluate feasible options to consummate their writing as well as social practice. The thoughts between these two groups, despite being different, are very likely to complement the appeals of AILit Framework emphasizing co-creating and, in the meantime, critically evaluating AI outputs. 
Instruments 
		This study adopts the lens of AILit Framework to examine how students perceive and either accept, modify, or reject the feedback generated by AI. At the end of the semester, students were asked to submit a reflection organizing with a set of structured questions including but not limited to: 
(1) Do you think that analyzing and evaluating feedback by comparing and contrasting human (instructor and peer) responses with GenAI responses helped you identify the strengths and limitations of each source when making writing decisions?
(2) What criteria did you use when deciding to accept, reject, or revise AI-generated
content during your writing process?
		On the other hand, the post-interviews of two groups are transcribed and evaluated along with AILit Framework to examine how the participants respond to the capabilities and limitations through discussing the usefulness of structured prompt, context relevance, and the overall usefulness of human-AI interactions. The interview questions are listed as follows:
(1) We have learned several prompt strategies in class (like assigning a persona, task, context, format, example, and tone). Which strategy worked best for your  topic, and which one was actually useless? Why?
(2) Since your topic is based on local or community issue, how would you think AI feedback as context-relevant or sounded like Western? How did you handle that?
(3) Through this project, did you feel the AI was helpful or making more confusion that you had to fix? Why?
		With these questions from reflections, this study can analyze the students’ immediate thought about AI’s intervention in critical literacy writing and how they dealt with the feedback, which corresponds to the domains of engaging and creating with AI in AILit Framework. Subsequently, the interview questions elicit their perceptions after this course in terms of capabilities and limitations of AI, ascertaining whether they decided to manage and design AI in their future learning process, as presented in the last two domains of AILit Framework highlighting the importance of delegating tasks to AI within an ethical and human-centered principles.
		For data analysis, this study utilizes MAXQDA to conduct thematic analysis including nine codes, as shown in Table 1.
 

Table 1. The code set of thematic analysis 
	Adoption	Perception	The domain of AILit Framework
Codes	Accept	Capabilities	Engage
	Modify	Limitations	Create
	Reject		Manage
			Design
 
		The first code set is feedback processing behaviors, which includes three categories: Accept, Modify, and Reject. Accept entails the direct incorporation of AI generated suggestions into the writing without significant alteration. Modify describes the adaptation of AI feedback to align with the relevance and practicality concerning their context. Reject refers to the deliberate dismissal of AI output when students perceive factual errors or cultural biases within the response. 
		The second code set captures the evaluative perception of AI feedback through the codes: Capabilities and Limitations. Capabilities are the technical strengths identified by students, such as brainstorming or textual refinement. Limitations reflect the identified weaknesses.
		The third code set encompasses OECD AI Literacy Framework, comprising four codes: Engage, Create, Manage, and Design. Engage relates to first recognize AI’s presence, then evaluate the accuracy and relevance of AI outputs. Create symbolizes leading and refining AI output through prompts and feedback, while ensuring the content remains fair and appropriate. Manage focuses on guiding AI outputs with clear instructions, and assess whether AI’s role aligns with their goals and values. Design involves an awareness of what AI can or cannot do well to affect the fairness and utility of AI in a social action context.
Trustworthiness
		Regarding the trustworthiness of data collection and analysis, this study will employ multiple approaches to ensure the interpretations are not biased. To establish credibility, the research utilizes data triangulation by cross-referencing immediate reflection logs with semi-structured post-interviews. This process enables the researcher to verify the consistency of student decision-making. Furthermore, member checking will be conducted where ten participants and the course instructor review the interview transcripts and preliminary analysis to confirm that the interpretations align with their original intentions.
		For transferability, as mentioned earlier, this study recruits ten participants in two groups. In spite of diverse entrance channels and academic background, students were asked to submit their autobiography about their English proficiency level and the use of usage of AI in English writing before entering the university. It shows that their English proficiency levels stand at CEFR B2, and they have basic usage of AI beforehand. Concerning dependability, all interview transcripts and reflection will be documented and accessed for research purpose only.
		To ensure confirmability, the documents and results will undergo peer debriefing to prevent from adverse or overly subjective interpretations. Privacy and ethical considerations are upheld by using pseudonyms for all participants and informed consent regarding data usage and confidentiality in the interviews. 
Expected Outcomes
This study anticipates, through the lens of OECD’s (2025) AI Literacy Framework, students can learn from broad information provided and organized by AI and transform information into knowledge. Subsequently, they learn to prompt structurally for better outputs, whereas they will soon realize AI is not all-knowing being that can unconditionally help everything in the given sociopolitical context. Therefore, they become a critical evaluator on deciding whether they choose to accept, modify, or reject AI feedback with a certain reason rooted from the rationality to unveil its actual capabilities and limitations. In this way, the role of AI in this study becomes relativistic that it can be a powerful supporter for students to learn critical literacy in early stage and learn to take AI as the object to question what it can and cannot do well.

REFERENCES
Alm, A., & Watanabe, Y. (2023). Integrating ChatGPT in Language Education: A Freirean Perspective. Iranian Journal of Language Teaching Research, 11(3), 19-30. https://doi.org/10.30466/ijltr.2023.121404 
 Alzubi, A. A. F., Nazim, M., & Alyami, N. (2025). Do AI-generative tools kill or nurture creativity in EFL teaching and learning?. Education and Information Technologies, 30(11), 15147-15184. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-025-13409-8
Asadi, M., Ebadi, S., Salman, A. R., Taheri, R., & Mohammadi, L. (2025). Investigating the effects of AI-assisted teacher instruction on online IELTS writing. Social Sciences & Humanities Open, 12, 101747. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssaho.2025.101747
Ashby, W. R. (1956). An introduction to cybernetics. https://ashby.info/Ashby-Introduction-to-Cybernetics.pdf
Arseven, T., & Bal, M. (2025). Critical literacy in artificial intelligence assisted writing instruction: A systematic review. Thinking Skills and Creativity, 57, 101850. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tsc.2025.101850
Bai, L., & Wei, Y. (2024). Exploring EFL students’ integration and perceptions of ChatGPT's text revisions: A three-stage writing task study. IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies, 17, 2161-2172. https://doi.org/10.1109/TLT.2024.3491864
Banh, L., & Strobel, G. (2023). Generative artificial intelligence. Electronic markets, 33(1), 63. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12525-023-00680-1
Bearman, M., & Ajjawi, R. (2023). Learning to work with the black box: Pedagogy for a world with artificial intelligence. British Journal of Educational Technology, 54(5), 1160-1173. https://doi.org/10.1111/bjet.13337
Bender, E. M., Gebru, T., McMillan-Major, A., & Shmitchell, S. (2021, March). On the dangers of stochastic parrots: Can language models be too big?🦜. In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM conference on fairness, accountability, and transparency (pp. 610-623).
Burriss, S. K., & Leander, K. (2024). Critical posthumanist literacy: Building theory for reading, writing, and living ethically with everyday artificial intelligence. Reading Research Quarterly, 59(4), 560-569. https://doi.org/10.1002/rrq.565
Chen, Y., Zhang, X., & Hu, L. (2024). A progressive prompt-based image-generative AI approach to promoting students’ achievement and perceptions in learning ancient Chinese poetry. Educational Technology & Society, 27(2), 284-305. https://www.jstor.org/stable/48766176
Chen, Z., Wei, W., Zhu, X., & Yao, Y. (2026). Unpacking the rejection of L2 students toward ChatGPT-generated feedback: An explanatory research. ECNU Review of Education, 9(1), 20965311241305140.
Comber, B., Janks, H., & Hruby, G. G. (2018). Texts, identities, and ethics: Critical literacy in a post-truth world. Journal of Adolescent & Adult Literacy, 62(1), 95-99. https://www.jstor.org/stable/26632941
Dang, J., & Liu, L. (2024). Extended artificial intelligence aversion: People deny humanness to artificial intelligence users. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. https://psycnet.apa.org/doi/10.1037/pspi0000480
Darvin, R. (2025a). Identity and investment in the age of generative AI. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 1-18. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0267190525100135
Darvin, R. (2025b). The need for critical digital literacies in generative AI-mediated L2 writing. Journal of Second Language Writing, 67, 101186. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jslw.2025.101186
Farlow, J. L., Abouyared, M., Rettig, E. M., Kejner, A., Patel, R., & Edwards, H. A. (2024). Gender Bias in Artificial Intelligence‐Written Letters of Reference. Otolaryngology–Head and Neck Surgery, 171(4), 1027-1032. https://doi.org/10.1002/ohn.806
Fathi, J., & Rahimi, M. (2026). Utilising artificial intelligence-enhanced writing mediation to develop academic writing skills in EFL students: a qualitative study. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 39(1-2), 263-302. https://doi.org/10.1080/09588221.2024.2374772
Freire, P. (1970). Pedagogy of the Oppressed. New York: Continuum Books.
Google Workplace (2024). Prompting guide 101: A quick-start handbook for effective prompts. Google Workplace with Gemini. https://services.google.com/fh/files/misc/workspace_with_gemini_prompting_guide.pdf
Graphite. io. (2024, May 8). More articles are now created by Ai Than humans. Graphite. https://graphite.io/five-percent/more-articles-are-now-created-by-ai-than-humans
Guo, K., Pan, M., Li, Y., & Lai, C. (2024). Effects of an AI-supported approach to peer feedback on university EFL students' feedback quality and writing ability. The Internet and Higher Education, 63, 100962. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iheduc.2024.100962
Haiyan, M., & Rilong, L. (2016). Classroom EFL Writing: The Alignment-Oriented Approach. English Language Teaching, 9(4), 76-82. http://dx.doi.org/10.5539/elt.v9n4p76
Han, J., & Li, M. (2024). Exploring ChatGPT-supported teacher feedback in the EFL context. System, 126, 103502. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.system.2024.103502
Hattie, J., & Timperley, H. (2007). The power of feedback. Review of educational research, 77(1), 81-112. https://doi.org/10.3102/003465430298487
Henderson, M., Ajjawi, R., Boud, D., & Molloy, E. (2019). Identifying feedback that has impact. In The impact of feedback in higher education: Improving assessment outcomes for students (pp. 15-34). Cham: Springer International Publishing.
Hoffman, R., & Beato, G. (2025). Superagency: what could possibly go right with our AI future. Authors Equity.
Hu, W., Tian, J., & Li, Y. (2025). Enhancing student engagement in online collaborative writing through a generative AI-based conversational agent. The Internet and Higher Education, 65, 100979. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iheduc.2024.100979
Huang, X., Zou, D., Cheng, G., Chen, X., & Xie, H. (2023). Trends, research issues and applications of artificial intelligence in language education. Educational Technology & Society, 26(1), 112-131. https://www.jstor.org/stable/48707971
Janks, H. (2014). Critical literacy's ongoing importance for education. Journal of Adolescent & Adult Literacy, 57(5), 349-356. https://doi.org/10.1002/jaal.260
Janks, H. (2019). Critical literacy and the importance of reading with and against a text. Journal of Adolescent & Adult Literacy, 62(5), 561-564. https://www.jstor.org/stable/48554909
Ji, J., Qiu, T., Chen, B., Zhang, B., Lou, H., Wang, K., ... & Gao, W. (2023). AI alignment: A comprehensive survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.19852.
Juzek, T. S., & Ward, Z. B. (2025, January). Why does ChatGPT “Delve” so much? Exploring the sources of lexical overrepresentation in Large Language Models. In Proceedings of the 31st international conference on computational linguistics (pp. 6397-6411). https://aclanthology.org/2025.coling-main.426/
Kalai, A. T., Nachum, O., Vempala, S. S., & Zhang, E. (2025). Why language models hallucinate. arXiv preprint arXiv:2509.04664.
Kalantzis, M., & Cope, B. (2025). Literacy in the time of artificial intelligence. Reading Research Quarterly, 60(1), e591. https://doi.org/10.1002/rrq.591
Kandlhofer, M., Steinbauer, G., Hirschmugl-Gaisch, S., & Huber, P. (2016, October). Artificial intelligence and computer science in education: From kindergarten to university. In 2016 IEEE frontiers in education conference (FIE) (pp. 1-9). IEEE, doi: 10.1109/FIE.2016.7757570. https://doi.org/10.1109/FIE.2016.7757570
Kendeou, P., McMaster, K. L., McNamara, D. S., & Wilke, B. C. (2023). Literacy. Handbook of educational psychology, 553-576.
Knoth, N., Tolzin, A., Janson, A., & Leimeister, J. M. (2024). AI literacy and its implications for prompt engineering strategies. Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence, 6, 100225. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2024.100225
Kong, S. C., Korte, S. M., Burton, S., Keskitalo, P., Turunen, T., Smith, D., ... & Beaton, M. C. (2025). Artificial Intelligence (AI) literacy–an argument for AI literacy in education. Innovations in Education and Teaching International, 62(2), 477-483. https://doi.org/10.1080/14703297.2024.2332744
Kosmyna, N., Hauptmann, E., Yuan, Y. T., Situ, J., Liao, X. H., Beresnitzky, A. V., ... & Maes, P. (2025). Your brain on ChatGPT: Accumulation of cognitive debt when using an AI assistant for essay writing task. arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.08872, 4.
Kress, G. (2005). Before writing: Rethinking the paths to literacy. Routledge.
Kulhavy, R. W. (1977). Feedback in written instruction. Review of educational research, 47(2), 211-232. https://doi.org/10.3102/00346543047002211
Kurniati, E., Emaliana, I., & Sahar, R. (2025). Empathy and epistemic beliefs empower critical, culturally responsive ChatGPT integration in learning English academic writing. Cogent Education, 12(1), 2590919. https://doi.org/10.1080/2331186X.2025.2590919
Leander, K. M., & Burriss, S. K. (2020). Critical literacy for a posthuman world: When people read, and become, with machines. British Journal of Educational Technology, 51(4), 1262-1276. https://doi.org/10.1111/bjet.12924
Lee, H. P., Sarkar, A., Tankelevitch, L., Drosos, I., Rintel, S., Banks, R., & Wilson, N. (2025, April). The impact of generative AI on critical thinking: Self-reported reductions in cognitive effort and confidence effects from a survey of knowledge workers. In Proceedings of the 2025 CHI conference on human factors in computing systems (pp. 1-22). https://doi.org/10.1145/3706598.3713778
Lewison, M., Flint, A. S., & Van Sluys, K. (2002). Taking on critical literacy: The journey of newcomers and novices. Language arts, 79(5), 382-392. https://doi.org/10.58680/la2002255
Li, Z., Liang, C., Peng, J., & Yin, M. (2024, November). How Does the Disclosure of AI Assistance Affect the Perceptions of Writing?. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (pp. 4849-4868), doi: https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.emnlp-main.279.
Lin, C. J., & Hwang, G. J. (2025). Artificial intelligence-supported procedural scaffolding for promoting EFL students’ writing performance in flipped peer assessment activities. Interactive Learning Environments, 1-15. https://doi.org/10.1080/10494820.2025.2532629
Lin, S., & Crosthwaite, P. (2024). The grass is not always greener: Teacher vs. GPT-assisted written corrective feedback. System, 127, 103529. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.system.2024.103529
Liu, M., Zhang, L. J., & Biebricher, C. (2024). Investigating students’ cognitive processes in generative AI-assisted digital multimodal composing and traditional writing. Computers & education, 211, 104977. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2023.104977
Long, D., & Magerko, B. (2020, April). What is AI literacy? Competencies and design considerations. In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI conference on human factors in computing systems (pp. 1-16). https://doi.org/10.1145/3313831.3376727
Luke, A. (2012). Critical literacy: Foundational notes. Theory into practice, 51(1), 4-11. https://doi.org/10.1080/00405841.2012.636324
Luke, A. (2013). Defining critical literacy. In Moving critical literacies forward (pp. 19-31). Routledge.
Luo, M., Hu, X., & Zhong, C. (2025). The collaboration of AI and teacher in feedback provision and its impact on EFL student’s argumentative writing. Education and Information Technologies, 30(12), 17695-17715. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-025-13488-7
Monteith, S., Glenn, T., Geddes, J. R., Whybrow, P. C., Achtyes, E., & Bauer, M. (2024). Artificial intelligence and increasing misinformation. The British Journal of Psychiatry, 224(2), 33-35. https://doi.org/10.1192/bjp.2023.136
Morrell, E. (2003). Writing the word and the world: Critical literacy as critical textual production.
Naddaf, M. (2025). AI chatbots are sycophants—and it’s harming science. Nature, 647, 13. https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-025-03390-0
Ng, D. T. K., Leung, J. K. L., Chu, S. K. W., & Qiao, M. S. (2021). Conceptualizing AI literacy: An exploratory review. Computers and Education, 2, 100041. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2021.100041
Ng, D. T. K., Su, J., Leung, J. K. L., & Chu, S. K. W. (2024). Artificial intelligence (AI) literacy education in secondary schools: a review. Interactive Learning Environments, 32(10), 6204-6224. https://doi.org/10.1080/10494820.2023.2255228
Nguyen, L., & Barrot, J. S. (2024). Detecting and assessing AI-generated and human-produced texts: The case of second language writing teachers. Assessing Writing, 62, 100899. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asw.2024.100899
Niloy, A. C., Akter, S., Sultana, N., Sultana, J., & Rahman, S. I. U. (2024). Is Chatgpt a menace for creative writing ability? An experiment. Journal of computer assisted learning, 40(2), 919-930. https://doi.org/10.1111/jcal.12929
OECD (2025). Empowering students for the age of AI: An AI literacy framework for primary and secondary education (Review draft). OECD. Paris. https://ailiteracyframework.org
Pangrazio, L. (2026). The (im) possibility of AI literacy. Learning, Media and Technology, 51(1), 1-7. https://doi.org/10.1080/17439884.2026.2615553
Qin, X., Zhou, X., Chen, C., Wu, D., Zhou, H., Dong, X., ... & Lu, J. G. (2025). AI aversion or appreciation? A capability–personalization framework and a meta-analytic review. Psychological bulletin, 151(5), 580. https://doi.org/10.1037/bul0000477
Rad, H. S., Alipour, R., & Jafarpour, A. (2024). Using artificial intelligence to foster students’ writing feedback literacy, engagement, and outcome: A case of Wordtune application. Interactive Learning Environments, 32(9), 5020-5040. https://doi.org/10.1080/10494820.2023.2208170
Salvagno, M., Taccone, F. S., & Gerli, A. G. (2023). Artificial intelligence hallucinations. Critical Care, 27(1), 180. https://www.jstor.org/stable/48707971
Sharma, M., Tong, M., Korbak, T., Duvenaud, D., Askell, A., Bowman, S. R., ... & Perez, E. (2023). Towards understanding sycophancy in language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.13548.
Shen, Y., & Chen, L. (2025). ‘Critical chatting’or ‘casual cheating’: how graduate EFL students utilize ChatGPT for academic writing. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 1-29. https://doi.org/10.1080/09588221.2025.2479141
Shroff, L. (2025, December 2). The people outsourcing their thinking to AI. The Atlantic. https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/2025/12/people-outsourcing-their-thinking-ai/685093/
Song, C., & Song, Y. (2023). Enhancing academic writing skills and motivation: assessing the efficacy of ChatGPT in AI-assisted language learning for EFL students. Frontiers in psychology, 14, 1260843. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2023.1260843
Stewart, O. G., & Rodgers, D. J. (2025). A critical AI media literacy framework: understanding layered bias and empowerment in artificial intelligence. Learning, Media and Technology, 1-13. https://doi.org/10.1080/17439884.2025.2527179
Sun, Y., Sheng, D., Zhou, Z., & Wu, Y. (2024). AI hallucination: towards a comprehensive classification of distorted information in artificial intelligence-generated content. Humanities and Social Sciences Communications, 11(1), 1-14. https://doi.org/10.1057/s41599-024-03811-x
Thongsan, N. C., & Anderson, N. J. (2025). From Passive Answers to Active Inquiry: How AI Supports Critical Reading in EFL Classrooms. LEARN Journal: Language Education and Acquisition Research Network, 18(2), 795-820. https://doi.org/10.70730/KMKL8505
Tiernan, P., Costello, E., Donlon, E., Parysz, M., & Scriney, M. (2023). Information and Media Literacy in the Age of AI: Options for the Future. Education Sciences, 13(9), 906. https://doi.org/10.3390/educsci13090906
Vasquez, V. M., Janks, H., & Comber, B. (2019). Critical literacy as a way of being and doing. Language arts, 96(5), 300-311. https://doi.org/10.58680/la201930093
Veldhuis, A., Lo, P. Y., Kenny, S., & Antle, A. N. (2025). Critical Artificial Intelligence literacy: A scoping review and framework synthesis. International Journal of Child-Computer Interaction, 43, 100708. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcci.2024.100708
Walter, Y. (2024). Embracing the future of Artificial Intelligence in the classroom: the relevance of AI literacy, prompt engineering, and critical thinking in modern education. International journal of educational technology in higher education, 21(1), 15. https://doi.org/10.1186/s41239-024-00448-3
Wang, C., & Wang, Z. (2025). Investigating L2 writers' critical AI literacy in AI-assisted writing: An APSE model. Journal of Second Language Writing, 67, 101187. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jslw.2025.101187
Wang, D. (2024). Teacher- Versus AI-Generated (Poe Application) Corrective Feedback and Language Students’ Writing Anxiety, Complexity, Fluency, and Accuracy. International Review of Research in Open and Distributed Learning, 25(3), 37–56. https://doi.org/10.19173/irrodl.v25i3.7646
Warschauer, M., Tseng, W., Yim, S., Webster, T., Jacob, S., Du, Q., & Tate, T. (2023). The affordances and contradictions of AI-generated text for writers of English as a second or foreign language. Journal of Second Language Writing, 62. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jslw.2023.101071
Wei, P., Wang, X., & Dong, H. (2023). The impact of automated writing evaluation on second language writing skills of Chinese EFL students: A randomized controlled trial. Frontiers in Psychology, 14, 1249991. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2023.1249991
Weninger, C. (2020). Investigating ideology through framing: A critical discourse analysis of a critical literacy lesson. Classroom Discourse, 11(2), 107-128. https://doi.org/10.1080/19463014.2020.1748674
Willems, T., Khan, S., Huang, Q., Camburn, B., Sockalingam, N., & Poon, K. W. (2025, December). To Use or to Refuse? Re-Centering Student Agency with Generative AI in Engineering Design Education. In 2025 IEEE International Conference on Teaching, Assessment, and Learning for Engineering (TALE) (pp. 1-8). IEEE.
Woo, D. J., Wang, D., Guo, K., & Susanto, H. (2024). Teaching EFL students to write with ChatGPT: Students' motivation to learn, cognitive load, and satisfaction with the learning process. Education and information technologies, 29(18), 24963-24990.  https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-024-12819-4
Yan, D., & Zhang, S. (2024). L2 writer engagement with automated written corrective feedback provided by ChatGPT: A mixed-method multiple case study. Humanities and Social Sciences Communications, 11(1), 1-14. | https://doi.org/10.1057/s41599-024-03543-y
Yeung, K. (2019). ‘Hypernudge’: Big Data as a mode of regulation by design. In The social power of algorithms (pp. 118-136). Routledge. https://doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2016.1186713
Yin, X., & Dou, K. (2025). An AI-assisted critical thinking intervention to enhance undergraduate EFL students’ writing proficiency. Studies in Educational Evaluation, 86, 101480. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.stueduc.2025.101480
Zhan, Y., & Yan, Z. (2025). Students’ engagement with ChatGPT feedback: Implications for student feedback literacy in the context of generative artificial intelligence. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 1-14. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2025.2471821
Zhang, J., & Zhang, Z. (2024). AI in teacher education: Unlocking new dimensions in teaching support, inclusive learning, and digital literacy. Journal of Computer Assisted Learning, 40(4), 1871-1885. https://doi.org/10.1111/jcal.12988
Zhang, Y., Li, Y., Cui, L., Cai, D., Liu, L., Fu, T., ... & Shi, S. (2025). 🧜 Siren’s Song in the AI Ocean: A Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models. Computational Linguistics, 51(4), 1373-1418. https://doi.org/10.1162/COLI.a.16
 