# Journal of Pan-Pacific Association of Applied Linguistics, 20(2), 71-93.

# A Case Study of the Flipped Classroom in a Korean University General English Course

Erika Choe*

Eulji University

Myeong-Hee Seong

Eulji University

Choe, E. & Seong, M.-H. (2016). A case study of the flipped classroom in a Korean university general English course. Journal of Pan-Pacific Association of Applied Linguistics, 20(2), 71-93.

Research has proven the effectiveness of Flipped Classrooms (FC) for a variety of settings. However, more exploration needs to be done in regards to how FC can be used effectively in foreign language classrooms. The purpose of this study was to 1) explore student perceptions of FC in a Korean university general English course and 2) provide suggestions to inform better instructional practices. The FL model applied to the study was based on the University of Texas at Austin Center for Teaching and Learning and was conducted in a general English course for one semester at a university in South Korea. Both qualitative and quantitative data was collected in the form of a questionnaire administered to 80 students at the end of the course. The results were largely positive. Over half of students felt that the FC model aided their English studies. Students felt the FC gave them more chances to communicate in English, in addition to greater participation, preparedness, and feedback. Students also reported that the FC helped them have a deeper understanding of the course content. However, some students reported some dissatisfaction with the FC. When questioned regarding the disadvantages of FC, many reported the time requirement of the online homework and quizzes in addition to the video quality and variety of activities could be improved upon. Suggestions on how to use the FC more effectively are provided at the end of the paper.

# Keywords:

flipped learning, flipped classroom, students’ perceptions, university general English course

* First author: Erika Choe; corresponding author: Myeong-Hee Seong.

ⓒ 2016 PAAL 1345hypheneight355